---
title:  "head"
linkTitle::  "head"
weight: 100
description: >-
     head
---

# ‘head’: Output the first part of files

‘head’ prints the first part (10 lines by default) of each FILE; it
reads from standard input if no files are given or when given a FILE of
‘-’.
Synopsis:

``` 
 head [OPTION]... [FILE]...
```

If more than one FILE is specified, ‘head’ prints a one-line header
consisting of:

``` 
 ==> FILE NAME <==
```

before the output for each FILE.

The program accepts the following options. Also see \*note Common
options::.

‘-c \[-\]NUM’ ‘--bytes=\[-\]NUM’ Print the first NUM bytes, instead of
initial lines. However, if NUM is prefixed with a ‘-’, print all but the
last NUM bytes of each file. NUM may be, or may be an integer optionally
followed by, one of the following multiplicative suffixes: ‘b’ =\> 512
("blocks") ‘KB’ =\> 1000 (KiloBytes) ‘K’ =\> 1024 (KibiBytes) ‘MB’ =\>
1000*1000 (MegaBytes) ‘M’ =\> 1024*1024 (MebiBytes) ‘GB’ =\>
1000*1000*1000 (GigaBytes) ‘G’ =\> 1024*1024*1024 (GibiBytes) and so on
for ‘T’, ‘P’, ‘E’, ‘Z’, and ‘Y’.

‘-n \[-\]NUM’ ‘--lines=\[-\]NUM’ Output the first NUM lines. However, if
NUM is prefixed with a ‘-’, print all but the last NUM lines of each
file. Size multiplier suffixes are the same as with the ‘-c’ option.

‘-q’ ‘--quiet’ ‘--silent’ Never print file name headers.

‘-v’ ‘--verbose’ Always print file name headers.

‘-z’ ‘--zero-terminated’ Delimit items with a zero byte rather than a
newline (ASCII LF). I.e., treat input as items separated by ASCII NUL
and terminate output items with ASCII NUL. This option can be useful in
conjunction with ‘perl -0’ or ‘find -print0’ and ‘xargs -0’ which do the
same in order to reliably handle arbitrary file names (even those
containing blanks or other special characters).

For compatibility ‘head’ also supports an obsolete option syntax
‘-\[NUM\]\[bkm\]\[cqv\]’, which is recognized only if it is specified
first. NUM is a decimal number optionally followed by a size letter
(‘b’, ‘k’, ‘m’) as in ‘-c’, or ‘l’ to mean count by lines, or other
option letters (‘cqv’). Scripts intended for standard hosts should use
‘-c NUM’ or ‘-n NUM’ instead. If your script must also run on hosts
that support only the obsolete syntax, it is usually simpler to avoid
‘head’, e.g., by using ‘sed 5q’ instead of ‘head -5’.

An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
