---
title:  "install"
linkTitle::  "install"
weight: 100
description: >-
     install
---

# ‘install’: Copy files and set attributes

‘install’ copies files while setting their file mode bits and, if
possible, their owner and group. Synopses:

``` 
 install [OPTION]... [-T] SOURCE DEST
 install [OPTION]... SOURCE... DIRECTORY
 install [OPTION]... -t DIRECTORY SOURCE...
 install [OPTION]... -d DIRECTORY...
```

• If two file names are given, ‘install’ copies the first file to the
second.

• If the ‘--target-directory’ (‘-t’) option is given, or failing that if
the last file is a directory and the ‘--no-target-directory’ (‘-T’)
option is not given, ‘install’ copies each SOURCE file to the specified
directory, using the SOURCEs’ names.

• If the ‘--directory’ (‘-d’) option is given, ‘install’ creates each
DIRECTORY and any missing parent directories. Parent directories are
created with mode ‘u=rwx,go=rx’ (755), regardless of the ‘-m’ option or
the current umask. \*Note Directory Setuid and Setgid::, for how the
set-user-ID and set-group-ID bits of parent directories are inherited.

‘install’ is similar to ‘cp’, but allows you to control the attributes
of destination files. It is typically used in Makefiles to copy programs
into their destination directories. It refuses to copy files onto
themselves.

‘install’ never preserves extended attributes (xattr).

The program accepts the following options. Also see \*note Common
options::.

‘-b’ ‘--backup\[=METHOD\]’ \*Note Backup options::. Make a backup of
each file that would otherwise be overwritten or removed.

‘-C’ ‘--compare’ Compare each pair of source and destination files, and
if the destination has identical content and any specified owner, group,
permissions, and possibly SELinux context, then do not modify the
destination at all. Note this option is best used in conjunction with
‘--user’, ‘--group’ and ‘--mode’ options, lest ‘install’ incorrectly
determines the default attributes that installed files would have (as it
doesn’t consider setgid directories and POSIX default ACLs for example).
This could result in redundant copies or attributes that are not reset
to the correct defaults.

‘-c’ Ignored; for compatibility with old Unix versions of ‘install’.

‘-D’ Create any missing parent directories of DEST, then copy SOURCE to
DEST. Explicitly specifying the ‘--target-directory=DIR’ will similarly
ensure the presence of that hierarchy before copying SOURCE arguments.

‘-d’ ‘--directory’ Create any missing parent directories, giving them
the default attributes. Then create each given directory, setting their
owner, group and mode as given on the command line or to the defaults.

‘-g GROUP’ ‘--group=GROUP’ Set the group ownership of installed files or
directories to GROUP. The default is the process’s current group. GROUP
may be either a group name or a numeric group ID.

‘-m MODE’ ‘--mode=MODE’ Set the file mode bits for the installed file or
directory to MODE, which can be either an octal number, or a symbolic
mode as in ‘chmod’, with ‘a=’ (no access allowed to anyone) as the point
of departure (\*note File permissions::). The default mode is
‘u=rwx,go=rx,a-s’—read, write, and execute for the owner, read and
execute for group and other, and with set-user-ID and set-group-ID
disabled. This default is not quite the same as ‘755’, since it disables
instead of preserving set-user-ID and set-group-ID on directories.
\*Note Directory Setuid and Setgid::.

‘-o OWNER’ ‘--owner=OWNER’ If ‘install’ has appropriate privileges (is
run as root), set the ownership of installed files or directories to
OWNER. The default is ‘root’. OWNER may be either a user name or a
numeric user ID.

‘--preserve-context’ Preserve the SELinux security context of files and
directories. Failure to preserve the context in all of the files or
directories will result in an exit status of 1. If SELinux is disabled
then print a warning and ignore the option.

‘-p’ ‘--preserve-timestamps’ Set the time of last access and the time of
last modification of each installed file to match those of each
corresponding original file. When a file is installed without this
option, its last access and last modification timestamps are both set to
the time of installation. This option is useful if you want to use the
last modification timestamps of installed files to keep track of when
they were last built as opposed to when they were last installed.

‘-s’ ‘--strip’ Strip the symbol tables from installed binary
executables.

‘--strip-program=PROGRAM’ Program used to strip binaries.

‘-S SUFFIX’ ‘--suffix=SUFFIX’ Append SUFFIX to each backup file made
with ‘-b’. \*Note Backup options::.

‘-t DIRECTORY’ ‘--target-directory=DIRECTORY’ Specify the destination
DIRECTORY. \*Note Target directory::. Also specifying the ‘-D’ option
will ensure the directory is present.

‘-T’ ‘--no-target-directory’ Do not treat the last operand specially
when it is a directory or a symbolic link to a directory. \*Note Target
directory::.

‘-v’ ‘--verbose’ Print the name of each file before copying it.

‘-Z’ ‘--context\[=CONTEXT\]’ Without a specified CONTEXT, adjust the
SELinux security context according to the system default type for
destination files, similarly to the ‘restorecon’ command. The long form
of this option with a specific context specified, will set the context
for newly created files only. With a specified context, if both SELinux
and SMACK are disabled, a warning is issued. This option is mutually
exclusive with the ‘--preserve-context’ option.

An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
