---
title:  "mktemp"
linkTitle::  "mktemp"
weight: 100
description: >-
     mktemp
---

# ‘mktemp’: Create temporary file or directory

‘mktemp’ manages the creation of temporary files and directories.
Synopsis:

``` 
 mktemp [OPTION]... [TEMPLATE]
```

Safely create a temporary file or directory based on TEMPLATE, and print
its name. If given, TEMPLATE must include at least three consecutive
‘X’s in the last component. If omitted, the template
‘tmp.XXXXXXXXXX’ is used, and option ‘--tmpdir’ is implied. The
final run of ‘X’s in the TEMPLATE will be replaced by alpha-numeric
characters; thus, on a case-sensitive file system, and with a TEMPLATE
including a run of N instances of ‘X’, there are ‘62\*\*N’ potential
file names.

Older scripts used to create temporary files by simply joining the name
of the program with the process id (‘$$’) as a suffix. However, that
naming scheme is easily predictable, and suffers from a race condition
where the attacker can create an appropriately named symbolic link, such
that when the script then opens a handle to what it thought was an
unused file, it is instead modifying an existing file. Using the same
scheme to create a directory is slightly safer, since the ‘mkdir’ will
fail if the target already exists, but it is still inferior because it
allows for denial of service attacks. Therefore, modern scripts should
use the ‘mktemp’ command to guarantee that the generated name will be
unpredictable, and that knowledge of the temporary file name implies
that the file was created by the current script and cannot be modified
by other users.

When creating a file, the resulting file has read and write permissions
for the current user, but no permissions for the group or others; these
permissions are reduced if the current umask is more restrictive.

Here are some examples (although note that if you repeat them, you will
most likely get different file names):

• Create a temporary file in the current directory. $ mktemp file.XXXX
file.H47c

• Create a temporary file with a known suffix. $ mktemp --suffix=.txt
file-XXXX file-H08W.txt $ mktemp file-XXXX-XXXX.txt file-XXXX-eI9L.txt

• Create a secure fifo relative to the user’s choice of ‘TMPDIR’, but
falling back to the current directory rather than ‘/tmp’. Note that
‘mktemp’ does not create fifos, but can create a secure directory in
which the fifo can live. Exit the shell if the directory or fifo could
not be created. $ dir=$(mktemp -p "${TMPDIR:-.}" -d dir-XXXX) || exit 1
$ fifo=$dir/fifo $ mkfifo "$fifo" || { rmdir "$dir"; exit 1; }

• Create and use a temporary file if possible, but ignore failure. The
file will reside in the directory named by ‘TMPDIR’, if specified, or
else in ‘/tmp’. $ file=$(mktemp -q) && { \> \# Safe to use $file only
within this block. Use quotes, \> \# since $TMPDIR, and thus $file, may
contain whitespace. \> echo ... \> "$file" \> rm "$file" \> }

• Act as a semi-random character generator (it is not fully random,
since it is impacted by the contents of the current directory). To avoid
security holes, do not use the resulting names to create a file. $
mktemp -u XXX Gb9 $ mktemp -u XXX nzC

The program accepts the following options. Also see \*note Common
options::.

‘-d’ ‘--directory’ Create a directory rather than a file. The directory
will have read, write, and search permissions for the current user, but
no permissions for the group or others; these permissions are reduced if
the current umask is more restrictive.

‘-q’ ‘--quiet’ Suppress diagnostics about failure to create a file or
directory. The exit status will still reflect whether a file was
created.

‘-u’ ‘--dry-run’ Generate a temporary name that does not name an
existing file, without changing the file system contents. Using the
output of this command to create a new file is inherently unsafe, as
there is a window of time between generating the name and using it where
another process can create an object by the same name.

‘-p DIR’ ‘--tmpdir\[=DIR\]’ Treat TEMPLATE relative to the directory
DIR. If DIR is not specified (only possible with the long option
‘--tmpdir’) or is the empty string, use the value of ‘TMPDIR’ if
available, otherwise use ‘/tmp’. If this is specified, TEMPLATE must not
be absolute. However, TEMPLATE can still contain slashes, although
intermediate directories must already exist.

‘--suffix=SUFFIX’ Append SUFFIX to the TEMPLATE. SUFFIX must not contain
slash. If ‘--suffix’ is specified, TEMPLATE must end in ‘X’; if it is
not specified, then an appropriate ‘--suffix’ is inferred by finding the
last ‘X’ in TEMPLATE. This option exists for use with the default
TEMPLATE and for the creation of a SUFFIX that starts with ‘X’.

‘-t’ Treat TEMPLATE as a single file relative to the value of ‘TMPDIR’
if available, or to the directory specified by ‘-p’, otherwise to
‘/tmp’. TEMPLATE must not contain slashes. This option is
deprecated; the use of ‘-p’ without ‘-t’ offers better defaults (by
favoring the command line over ‘TMPDIR’) and more flexibility (by
allowing intermediate directories).

Exit status:

``` 
 0 if the file was created,
 1 otherwise.
```
