---
title:  "mv"
linkTitle::  "mv"
weight: 100
description: >-
     mv
---

# ‘mv’: Move (rename) files

‘mv’ moves or renames files (or directories). Synopses:

``` 
 mv [OPTION]... [-T] SOURCE DEST
 mv [OPTION]... SOURCE... DIRECTORY
 mv [OPTION]... -t DIRECTORY SOURCE...
```

• If two file names are given, ‘mv’ moves the first file to the second.

• If the ‘--target-directory’ (‘-t’) option is given, or failing that if
the last file is a directory and the ‘--no-target-directory’ (‘-T’)
option is not given, ‘mv’ moves each SOURCE file to the specified
directory, using the SOURCEs’ names.

‘mv’ can move any type of file from one file system to another. Prior to
version ‘4.0’ of the fileutils, ‘mv’ could move only regular files
between file systems. For example, now ‘mv’ can move an entire directory
hierarchy including special device files from one partition to another.
It first uses some of the same code that’s used by ‘cp -a’ to copy the
requested directories and files, then (assuming the copy succeeded) it
removes the originals. If the copy fails, then the part that was copied
to the destination partition is removed. If you were to copy three
directories from one partition to another and the copy of the first
directory succeeded, but the second didn’t, the first would be left on
the destination partition and the second and third would be left on the
original partition.

‘mv’ always tries to copy extended attributes (xattr), which may include
SELinux context, ACLs or Capabilities. Upon failure all but ‘Operation
not supported’ warnings are output.

If a destination file exists but is normally unwritable, standard input
is a terminal, and the ‘-f’ or ‘--force’ option is not given, ‘mv’
prompts the user for whether to replace the file. (You might own the
file, or have write permission on its directory.) If the response is not
affirmative, the file is skipped.

*Warning*: Avoid specifying a source name with a trailing slash, when it
might be a symlink to a directory. Otherwise, ‘mv’ may do something very
surprising, since its behavior depends on the underlying rename system
call. On a system with a modern Linux-based kernel, it fails with
‘errno=ENOTDIR’. However, on other systems (at least FreeBSD 6.1 and
Solaris 10) it silently renames not the symlink but rather the directory
referenced by the symlink. \*Note Trailing slashes::.

*Note*: ‘mv’ will only replace empty directories in the destination.
Conflicting populated directories are skipped with a diagnostic.

The program accepts the following options. Also see \*note Common
options::.

‘-b’ ‘--backup\[=METHOD\]’ \*Note Backup options::. Make a backup of
each file that would otherwise be overwritten or removed.

‘-f’ ‘--force’ Do not prompt the user before removing a destination
file. If you specify more than one of the ‘-i’, ‘-f’, ‘-n’ options, only
the final one takes effect.

‘-i’ ‘--interactive’ Prompt whether to overwrite each existing
destination file, regardless of its permissions. If the response is not
affirmative, the file is skipped. If you specify more than one of the
‘-i’, ‘-f’, ‘-n’ options, only the final one takes effect.

‘-n’ ‘--no-clobber’ Do not overwrite an existing file; silently do
nothing instead. If you specify more than one of the ‘-i’, ‘-f’, ‘-n’
options, only the final one takes effect. This option is mutually
exclusive with ‘-b’ or ‘--backup’ option.

‘-u’ ‘--update’ Do not move a non-directory that has an existing
destination with the same or newer modification timestamp. If the move
is across file system boundaries, the comparison is to the source
timestamp truncated to the resolutions of the destination file system
and of the system calls used to update timestamps; this avoids duplicate
work if several ‘mv -u’ commands are executed with the same source and
destination. This option is ignored if the ‘-n’ or ‘--no-clobber’ option
is also specified.

‘-v’ ‘--verbose’ Print the name of each file before moving it.

‘--strip-trailing-slashes’ Remove any trailing slashes from each SOURCE
argument. \*Note Trailing slashes::.

‘-S SUFFIX’ ‘--suffix=SUFFIX’ Append SUFFIX to each backup file made
with ‘-b’. \*Note Backup options::.

‘-t DIRECTORY’ ‘--target-directory=DIRECTORY’ Specify the destination
DIRECTORY. \*Note Target directory::.

‘-T’ ‘--no-target-directory’ Do not treat the last operand specially
when it is a directory or a symbolic link to a directory. \*Note Target
directory::.

‘-Z’ ‘--context’ This option functions similarly to the ‘restorecon’
command, by adjusting the SELinux security context according to the
system default type for destination files and each created directory.

An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
