---
title:  "od"
linkTitle::  "od"
weight: 100
description: >-
     od
---

# ‘od’: Write files in octal or other formats

‘od’ writes an unambiguous representation of each FILE (‘-’ means
standard input), or standard input if none are given. Synopses:

``` 
 od [OPTION]... [FILE]...
 od [-abcdfilosx]... [FILE] [[+]OFFSET[.][b]]
 od [OPTION]... --traditional [FILE] [[+]OFFSET[.][b] [[+]LABEL[.][b]]]
```

Each line of output consists of the offset in the input, followed by
groups of data from the file. By default, ‘od’ prints the offset in
octal, and each group of file data is a C ‘short int’’s worth of input
printed as a single octal number.

If OFFSET is given, it specifies how many input bytes to skip before
formatting and writing. By default, it is interpreted as an octal
number, but the optional trailing decimal point causes it to be
interpreted as decimal. If no decimal is specified and the offset begins
with ‘0x’ or ‘0X’ it is interpreted as a hexadecimal number. If there is
a trailing ‘b’, the number of bytes skipped will be OFFSET multiplied by
512.

If a command is of both the first and second forms, the second form is
assumed if the last operand begins with ‘+’ or (if there are two
operands) a digit. For example, in ‘od foo 10’ and ‘od +10’ the ‘10’ is
an offset, whereas in ‘od 10’ the ‘10’ is a file name.

The program accepts the following options. Also see \*note Common
options::.

‘-A RADIX’ ‘--address-radix=RADIX’ Select the base in which file offsets
are printed. RADIX can be one of the following:

``` 
 ‘d’
      decimal;
 ‘o’
      octal;
 ‘x’
      hexadecimal;
 ‘n’
      none (do not print offsets).

 The default is octal.
```

‘--endian=ORDER’ Reorder input bytes, to handle inputs with differing
byte orders, or to provide consistent output independent of the endian
convention of the current system. Swapping is performed according to the
specified ‘--type’ size and endian ORDER, which can be ‘little’ or
‘big’.

‘-j BYTES’ ‘--skip-bytes=BYTES’ Skip BYTES input bytes before formatting
and writing. If BYTES begins with ‘0x’ or ‘0X’, it is interpreted in
hexadecimal; otherwise, if it begins with ‘0’, in octal; otherwise, in
decimal. BYTES may be, or may be an integer optionally followed by, one
of the following multiplicative suffixes: ‘b’ =\> 512 ("blocks") ‘KB’
=\> 1000 (KiloBytes) ‘K’ =\> 1024 (KibiBytes) ‘MB’ =\> 1000*1000
(MegaBytes) ‘M’ =\> 1024*1024 (MebiBytes) ‘GB’ =\> 1000*1000*1000
(GigaBytes) ‘G’ =\> 1024*1024*1024 (GibiBytes) and so on for ‘T’, ‘P’,
‘E’, ‘Z’, and ‘Y’.

‘-N BYTES’ ‘--read-bytes=BYTES’ Output at most BYTES bytes of the input.
Prefixes and suffixes on ‘bytes’ are interpreted as for the ‘-j’ option.

‘-S BYTES’ ‘--strings\[=BYTES\]’ Instead of the normal output, output
only “string constants”: at least BYTES consecutive ASCII graphic
characters, followed by a zero byte (ASCII NUL). Prefixes and suffixes
on BYTES are interpreted as for the ‘-j’ option.

``` 
 If BYTES is omitted with ‘--strings’, the default is 3.
```

‘-t TYPE’ ‘--format=TYPE’ Select the format in which to output the file
data. TYPE is a string of one or more of the below type indicator
characters. If you include more than one type indicator character in a
single TYPE string, or use this option more than once, ‘od’ writes one
copy of each output line using each of the data types that you
specified, in the order that you specified.

``` 
 Adding a trailing “z” to any type specification appends a display
 of the single byte character representation of the printable
 characters to the output line generated by the type specification.

 ‘a’
      named character, ignoring high-order bit
 ‘c’
      printable single byte character, C backslash escape or a 3
      digit octal sequence
 ‘d’
      signed decimal
 ‘f’
      floating point (*note Floating point::)
 ‘o’
      octal
 ‘u’
      unsigned decimal
 ‘x’
      hexadecimal

 The type ‘a’ outputs things like ‘sp’ for space, ‘nl’ for newline,
 and ‘nul’ for a zero byte.  Only the least significant seven bits
 of each byte is used; the high-order bit is ignored.  Type ‘c’
 outputs ‘ ’, ‘\n’, and ‘\0’, respectively.

 Except for types ‘a’ and ‘c’, you can specify the number of bytes
 to use in interpreting each number in the given data type by
 following the type indicator character with a decimal integer.
 Alternately, you can specify the size of one of the C compiler’s
 built-in data types by following the type indicator character with
 one of the following characters.  For integers (‘d’, ‘o’, ‘u’,
 ‘x’):

 ‘C’
      char
 ‘S’
      short
 ‘I’
      int
 ‘L’
      long

 For floating point (‘f’):

 F
      float
 D
      double
 L
      long double
```

‘-v’ ‘--output-duplicates’ Output consecutive lines that are identical.
By default, when two or more consecutive output lines would be
identical, ‘od’ outputs only the first line, and puts just an asterisk
on the following line to indicate the elision.

‘-w\[N\]’ ‘--width\[=N\]’ Dump ‘n’ input bytes per output line. This
must be a multiple of the least common multiple of the sizes associated
with the specified output types.

``` 
 If this option is not given at all, the default is 16.  If N is
 omitted, the default is 32.
```

The next several options are shorthands for format specifications. GNU
‘od’ accepts any combination of shorthands and format specification
options. These options accumulate.

‘-a’ Output as named characters. Equivalent to ‘-t a’.

‘-b’ Output as octal bytes. Equivalent to ‘-t o1’.

‘-c’ Output as printable single byte characters, C backslash escapes or
3 digit octal sequences. Equivalent to ‘-t c’.

‘-d’ Output as unsigned decimal two-byte units. Equivalent to ‘-t u2’.

‘-f’ Output as floats. Equivalent to ‘-t fF’.

‘-i’ Output as decimal ints. Equivalent to ‘-t dI’.

‘-l’ Output as decimal long ints. Equivalent to ‘-t dL’.

‘-o’ Output as octal two-byte units. Equivalent to ‘-t o2’.

‘-s’ Output as decimal two-byte units. Equivalent to ‘-t d2’.

‘-x’ Output as hexadecimal two-byte units. Equivalent to ‘-t x2’.

‘--traditional’ Recognize the non-option label argument that traditional
‘od’ accepted. The following syntax:

``` 
      od --traditional [FILE] [[+]OFFSET[.][b] [[+]LABEL[.][b]]]

 can be used to specify at most one file and optional arguments
 specifying an offset and a pseudo-start address, LABEL.  The LABEL
 argument is interpreted just like OFFSET, but it specifies an
 initial pseudo-address.  The pseudo-addresses are displayed in
 parentheses following any normal address.
```

An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
