---
title:  "pr"
linkTitle::  "pr"
weight: 100
description: >-
     pr
---

# ‘pr’: Paginate or columnate files for printing

‘pr’ writes each FILE (‘-’ means standard input), or standard input if
none are given, to standard output, paginating and optionally outputting
in multicolumn format; optionally merges all FILEs, printing all in
parallel, one per column.
Synopsis:

``` 
 pr [OPTION]... [FILE]...
```

By default, a 5-line header is printed at each page: two blank lines; a
line with the date, the file name, and the page count; and two more
blank lines. A footer of five blank lines is also printed. The default
PAGE\_LENGTH is 66 lines. The default number of text lines is therefore
56. The text line of the header takes the form ‘DATE STRING PAGE’, with
spaces inserted around STRING so that the line takes up the full
PAGE\_WIDTH. Here, DATE is the date (see the ‘-D’ or ‘--date-format’
option for details), STRING is the centered header string, and PAGE
identifies the page number. The ‘LC\_MESSAGES’ locale category affects
the spelling of PAGE; in the default C locale, it is ‘Page NUMBER’ where
NUMBER is the decimal page number.

Form feeds in the input cause page breaks in the output. Multiple form
feeds produce empty pages.

Columns are of equal width, separated by an optional string (default is
‘space’). For multicolumn output, lines will always be truncated to
PAGE\_WIDTH (default 72), unless you use the ‘-J’ option. For single
column output no line truncation occurs by default. Use ‘-W’ option to
truncate lines in that case.

The program accepts the following options. Also see \*note Common
options::.

‘+FIRST\_PAGE\[:LAST\_PAGE\]’ ‘--pages=FIRST\_PAGE\[:LAST\_PAGE\]’ Begin
printing with page FIRST\_PAGE and stop with LAST\_PAGE. Missing
‘:LAST\_PAGE’ implies end of file. While estimating the number of
skipped pages each form feed in the input file results in a new page.
Page counting with and without ‘+FIRST\_PAGE’ is identical. By default,
counting starts with the first page of input file (not first page
printed). Line numbering may be altered by ‘-N’ option.

‘-COLUMN’ ‘--columns=COLUMN’ With each single FILE, produce COLUMN
columns of output (default is 1) and print columns down, unless ‘-a’ is
used. The column width is automatically decreased as COLUMN increases;
unless you use the ‘-W/-w’ option to increase PAGE\_WIDTH as well. This
option might well cause some lines to be truncated. The number of lines
in the columns on each page are balanced. The options ‘-e’ and ‘-i’ are
on for multiple text-column output. Together with ‘-J’ option column
alignment and line truncation is turned off. Lines of full length are
joined in a free field format and ‘-S’ option may set field separators.
‘-COLUMN’ may not be used with ‘-m’ option.

‘-a’ ‘--across’ With each single FILE, print columns across rather than
down. The ‘-COLUMN’ option must be given with COLUMN greater than one.
If a line is too long to fit in a column, it is truncated.

‘-c’ ‘--show-control-chars’ Print control characters using hat notation
(e.g., ‘^G’); print other nonprinting characters in octal backslash
notation. By default, nonprinting characters are not changed.

‘-d’ ‘--double-space’ Double space the output.

‘-D FORMAT’ ‘--date-format=FORMAT’ Format header dates using FORMAT,
using the same conventions as for the command ‘date +FORMAT’. \*Note
date invocation::. Except for directives, which start with ‘%’,
characters in FORMAT are printed unchanged. You can use this option to
specify an arbitrary string in place of the header date, e.g.,
‘--date-format="Monday morning"’.

``` 
 The default date format is ‘%Y-%m-%d %H:%M’ (for example,
 ‘2001-12-04 23:59’); but if the ‘POSIXLY_CORRECT’ environment
 variable is set and the ‘LC_TIME’ locale category specifies the
 POSIX locale, the default is ‘%b %e %H:%M %Y’ (for example, ‘Dec  4
 23:59 2001’.

 Timestamps are listed according to the time zone rules specified by
 the ‘TZ’ environment variable, or by the system default rules if
 ‘TZ’ is not set.  *Note Specifying the Time Zone with ‘TZ’:
 (libc)TZ Variable.
```

‘-e\[IN-TABCHAR\[IN-TABWIDTH\]\]’
‘--expand-tabs\[=IN-TABCHAR\[IN-TABWIDTH\]\]’ Expand TABs to spaces on
input. Optional argument IN-TABCHAR is the input tab character (default
is the TAB character). Second optional argument IN-TABWIDTH is the input
tab character’s width (default is 8).

‘-f’ ‘-F’ ‘--form-feed’ Use a form feed instead of newlines to separate
output pages. This does not alter the default page length of 66 lines.

‘-h HEADER’ ‘--header=HEADER’ Replace the file name in the header with
the centered string HEADER. When using the shell, HEADER should be
quoted and should be separated from ‘-h’ by a space.

‘-i\[OUT-TABCHAR\[OUT-TABWIDTH\]\]’
‘--output-tabs\[=OUT-TABCHAR\[OUT-TABWIDTH\]\]’ Replace spaces with
TABs on output. Optional argument OUT-TABCHAR is the output tab
character (default is the TAB character). Second optional argument
OUT-TABWIDTH is the output tab character’s width (default is 8).

‘-J’ ‘--join-lines’ Merge lines of full length. Used together with the
column options ‘-COLUMN’, ‘-a -COLUMN’ or ‘-m’. Turns off ‘-W/-w’ line
truncation; no column alignment used; may be used with
‘--sep-string\[=STRING\]’. ‘-J’ has been introduced (together with
‘-W’ and ‘--sep-string’) to disentangle the old (POSIX-compliant)
options ‘-w’ and ‘-s’ along with the three column options.

‘-l PAGE\_LENGTH’ ‘--length=PAGE\_LENGTH’ Set the page length to
PAGE\_LENGTH (default 66) lines, including the lines of the header \[and
the footer\]. If PAGE\_LENGTH is less than or equal to 10, the header
and footer are omitted, as if the ‘-t’ option had been given.

‘-m’ ‘--merge’ Merge and print all FILEs in parallel, one in each
column. If a line is too long to fit in a column, it is truncated,
unless the ‘-J’ option is used. ‘--sep-string\[=STRING\]’ may be used.
Empty pages in some FILEs (form feeds set) produce empty columns, still
marked by STRING. The result is a continuous line numbering and column
marking throughout the whole merged file. Completely empty merged pages
show no separators or line numbers. The default header becomes ‘DATE
PAGE’ with spaces inserted in the middle; this may be used with the ‘-h’
or ‘--header’ option to fill up the middle blank part.

‘-n\[NUMBER-SEPARATOR\[DIGITS\]\]’
‘--number-lines\[=NUMBER-SEPARATOR\[DIGITS\]\]’ Provide DIGITS digit
line numbering (default for DIGITS is 5). With multicolumn output the
number occupies the first DIGITS column positions of each text column or
only each line of ‘-m’ output. With single column output the number
precedes each line just as ‘-m’ does. Default counting of the line
numbers starts with the first line of the input file (not the first line
printed, compare the ‘--page’ option and ‘-N’ option). Optional argument
NUMBER-SEPARATOR is the character appended to the line number to
separate it from the text followed. The default separator is the TAB
character. In a strict sense a TAB is always printed with single column
output only. The TAB width varies with the TAB position, e.g., with the
left MARGIN specified by ‘-o’ option. With multicolumn output priority
is given to ‘equal width of output columns’ (a POSIX specification). The
TAB width is fixed to the value of the first column and does not change
with different values of left MARGIN. That means a fixed number of
spaces is always printed in the place of the NUMBER-SEPARATOR TAB. The
tabification depends upon the output position.

‘-N LINE\_NUMBER’ ‘--first-line-number=LINE\_NUMBER’ Start line counting
with the number LINE\_NUMBER at first line of first page printed (in
most cases not the first line of the input file).

‘-o MARGIN’ ‘--indent=MARGIN’ Indent each line with a margin MARGIN
spaces wide (default is zero). The total page width is the size of the
margin plus the PAGE\_WIDTH set with the ‘-W/-w’ option. A limited
overflow may occur with numbered single column output (compare ‘-n’
option).

‘-r’ ‘--no-file-warnings’ Do not print a warning message when an
argument FILE cannot be opened. (The exit status will still be nonzero,
however.)

‘-s\[CHAR\]’ ‘--separator\[=CHAR\]’ Separate columns by a single
character CHAR. The default for CHAR is the TAB character without ‘-w’
and ‘no character’ with ‘-w’. Without ‘-s’ the default separator ‘space’
is set. ‘-s\[char\]’ turns off line truncation of all three column
options (‘-COLUMN’|‘-a -COLUMN’|‘-m’) unless ‘-w’ is set. This is a
POSIX-compliant formulation.

‘-S\[STRING\]’ ‘--sep-string\[=STRING\]’ Use STRING to separate output
columns. The ‘-S’ option doesn’t affect the ‘-W/-w’ option, unlike the
‘-s’ option which does. It does not affect line truncation or column
alignment. Without ‘-S’, and with ‘-J’, ‘pr’ uses the default output
separator, TAB. Without ‘-S’ or ‘-J’, ‘pr’ uses a ‘space’ (same as ‘-S"
"’). If no ‘STRING’ argument is specified, ‘""’ is assumed.

‘-t’ ‘--omit-header’ Do not print the usual header \[and footer\] on
each page, and do not fill out the bottom of pages (with blank lines or
a form feed). No page structure is produced, but form feeds set in the
input files are retained. The predefined pagination is not changed. ‘-t’
or ‘-T’ may be useful together with other options; e.g.: ‘-t -e4’,
expand TAB characters in the input file to 4 spaces but don’t make any
other changes. Use of ‘-t’ overrides ‘-h’.

‘-T’ ‘--omit-pagination’ Do not print header \[and footer\]. In addition
eliminate all form feeds set in the input files.

‘-v’ ‘--show-nonprinting’ Print nonprinting characters in octal
backslash notation.

‘-w PAGE\_WIDTH’ ‘--width=PAGE\_WIDTH’ Set page width to PAGE\_WIDTH
characters for multiple text-column output only (default for PAGE\_WIDTH
is 72). The specified PAGE\_WIDTH is rounded down so that columns have
equal width. ‘-s\[CHAR\]’ turns off the default page width and any line
truncation and column alignment. Lines of full length are merged,
regardless of the column options set. No PAGE\_WIDTH setting is possible
with single column output. A POSIX-compliant formulation.

‘-W PAGE\_WIDTH’ ‘--page\_width=PAGE\_WIDTH’ Set the page width to
PAGE\_WIDTH characters, honored with and without a column option. With a
column option, the specified PAGE\_WIDTH is rounded down so that columns
have equal width. Text lines are truncated, unless ‘-J’ is used.
Together with one of the three column options (‘-COLUMN’, ‘-a -COLUMN’
or ‘-m’) column alignment is always used. The separator options ‘-S’ or
‘-s’ don’t disable the ‘-W’ option. Default is 72 characters. Without
‘-W PAGE\_WIDTH’ and without any of the column options NO line
truncation is used (defined to keep downward compatibility and to meet
most frequent tasks). That’s equivalent to ‘-W 72 -J’. The header line
is never truncated.

An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
