---
title:  "split"
linkTitle::  "split"
weight: 100
description: >-
     split
---

# ‘split’: Split a file into pieces.

‘split’ creates output files containing consecutive or interleaved
sections of INPUT (standard input if none is given or INPUT is ‘-’).
Synopsis:

``` 
 split [OPTION] [INPUT [PREFIX]]
```

By default, ‘split’ puts 1000 lines of INPUT (or whatever is left over
for the last section), into each output file.

The output files’ names consist of PREFIX (‘x’ by default) followed by a
group of characters (‘aa’, ‘ab’, ... by default), such that
concatenating the output files in traditional sorted order by file name
produces the original input file (except ‘-nr/N’). By default split will
initially create files with two generated suffix characters, and will
increase this width by two when the next most significant position
reaches the last character. (‘yz’, ‘zaaa’, ‘zaab’, ...). In this way an
arbitrary number of output files are supported, which sort as described
above, even in the presence of an ‘--additional-suffix’ option. If the
‘-a’ option is specified and the output file names are exhausted,
‘split’ reports an error without deleting the output files that it did
create.

The program accepts the following options. Also see \*note Common
options::.

‘-l LINES’ ‘--lines=LINES’ Put LINES lines of INPUT into each output
file. If ‘--separator’ is specified, then LINES determines the number of
records.

``` 
 For compatibility ‘split’ also supports an obsolete option syntax
 ‘-LINES’.  New scripts should use ‘-l LINES’ instead.
```

‘-b SIZE’ ‘--bytes=SIZE’ Put SIZE bytes of INPUT into each output file.
SIZE may be, or may be an integer optionally followed by, one of the
following multiplicative suffixes: ‘b’ =\> 512 ("blocks") ‘KB’ =\> 1000
(KiloBytes) ‘K’ =\> 1024 (KibiBytes) ‘MB’ =\> 1000*1000 (MegaBytes) ‘M’
=\> 1024*1024 (MebiBytes) ‘GB’ =\> 1000*1000*1000 (GigaBytes) ‘G’ =\>
1024*1024*1024 (GibiBytes) and so on for ‘T’, ‘P’, ‘E’, ‘Z’, and ‘Y’.

‘-C SIZE’ ‘--line-bytes=SIZE’ Put into each output file as many complete
lines of INPUT as possible without exceeding SIZE bytes. Individual
lines or records longer than SIZE bytes are broken into multiple files.
SIZE has the same format as for the ‘--bytes’ option. If ‘--separator’
is specified, then LINES determines the number of records.

‘--filter=COMMAND’ With this option, rather than simply writing to each
output file, write through a pipe to the specified shell COMMAND for
each output file. COMMAND should use the $FILE environment variable,
which is set to a different output file name for each invocation of the
command. For example, imagine that you have a 1TiB compressed file that,
if uncompressed, would be too large to reside on disk, yet you must
split it into individually-compressed pieces of a more manageable size.
To do that, you might run this command:

``` 
      xz -dc BIG.xz | split -b200G --filter='xz > $FILE.xz' - big-

 Assuming a 10:1 compression ratio, that would create about fifty
 20GiB files with names ‘big-aa.xz’, ‘big-ab.xz’, ‘big-ac.xz’, etc.
```

‘-n CHUNKS’ ‘--number=CHUNKS’

``` 
 Split INPUT to CHUNKS output files where CHUNKS may be:

      N      generate N files based on current size of INPUT
      K/N    only output Kth of N to stdout
      l/N    generate N files without splitting lines or records
      l/K/N  likewise but only output Kth of N to stdout
      r/N    like ‘l’ but use round robin distribution
      r/K/N  likewise but only output Kth of N to stdout

 Any excess bytes remaining after dividing the INPUT into N chunks,
 are assigned to the last chunk.  Any excess bytes appearing after
 the initial calculation are discarded (except when using ‘r’ mode).

 All N files are created even if there are fewer than N lines, or
 the INPUT is truncated.

 For ‘l’ mode, chunks are approximately INPUT size / N.  The INPUT
 is partitioned into N equal sized portions, with the last assigned
 any excess.  If a line _starts_ within a partition it is written
 completely to the corresponding file.  Since lines or records are
 not split even if they overlap a partition, the files written can
 be larger or smaller than the partition size, and even empty if a
 line/record is so long as to completely overlap the partition.

 For ‘r’ mode, the size of INPUT is irrelevant, and so can be a pipe
 for example.
```

‘-a LENGTH’ ‘--suffix-length=LENGTH’ Use suffixes of length LENGTH. If a
LENGTH of 0 is specified, this is the same as if (any previous) ‘-a’ was
not specified, and thus enables the default behavior, which starts the
suffix length at 2, and unless ‘-n’ or ‘--numeric-suffixes=FROM’ is
specified, will auto increase the length by 2 as required.

‘-d’ ‘--numeric-suffixes\[=FROM\]’ Use digits in suffixes rather than
lower-case letters. The numerical suffix counts from FROM if specified,
0 otherwise.

``` 
 FROM is supported with the long form option, and is used to either
 set the initial suffix for a single run, or to set the suffix
 offset for independently split inputs, and consequently the auto
 suffix length expansion described above is disabled.  Therefore you
 may also want to use option ‘-a’ to allow suffixes beyond ‘99’.
 Note if option ‘--number’ is specified and the number of files is
 less than FROM, a single run is assumed and the minimum suffix
 length required is automatically determined.
```

‘-x’ ‘--hex-suffixes\[=FROM\]’ Like ‘--numeric-suffixes’, but use
hexadecimal numbers (in lower case).

‘--additional-suffix=SUFFIX’ Append an additional SUFFIX to output file
names. SUFFIX must not contain slash.

‘-e’ ‘--elide-empty-files’ Suppress the generation of zero-length output
files. This can happen with the ‘--number’ option if a file is
(truncated to be) shorter than the number requested, or if a line is so
long as to completely span a chunk. The output file sequence numbers,
always run consecutively even when this option is specified.

‘-t SEPARATOR’ ‘--separator=SEPARATOR’ Use character SEPARATOR as the
record separator instead of the default newline character (ASCII LF). To
specify ASCII NUL as the separator, use the two-character string ‘\\0’,
e.g., ‘split -t '\\0'’.

‘-u’ ‘--unbuffered’ Immediately copy input to output in ‘--number r/...’
mode, which is a much slower mode of operation.

‘--verbose’ Write a diagnostic just before each output file is opened.

An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.

Here are a few examples to illustrate how the ‘--number’ (‘-n’) option
works:

Notice how, by default, one line may be split onto two or more:

``` 
 $ seq -w 6 10 > k; split -n3 k; head xa?
 ==> xaa <==
 06
 07
 ==> xab <==

 08
 0
 ==> xac <==
 9
 10
```

Use the "l/" modifier to suppress that:

``` 
 $ seq -w 6 10 > k; split -nl/3 k; head xa?
 ==> xaa <==
 06
 07

 ==> xab <==
 08
 09

 ==> xac <==
 10
```

Use the "r/" modifier to distribute lines in a round-robin fashion:

``` 
 $ seq -w 6 10 > k; split -nr/3 k; head xa?
 ==> xaa <==
 06
 09

 ==> xab <==
 07
 10

 ==> xac <==
 08
```

You can also extract just the Kth chunk. This extracts and prints just
the 7th "chunk" of 33:

``` 
 $ seq 100 > k; split -nl/7/33 k
 20
 21
 22
```
