---
title:  "touch"
linkTitle::  "touch"
weight: 100
description: >-
     touch
---

# ‘touch’: Change file timestamps

‘touch’ changes the access and/or modification timestamps of the
specified files.
Synopsis:

``` 
 touch [OPTION]... FILE...
```

Any FILE argument that does not exist is created empty, unless option
‘--no-create’ (‘-c’) or ‘--no-dereference’ (‘-h’) was in effect.

A FILE argument string of ‘-’ is handled specially and causes ‘touch’ to
change the times of the file associated with standard output.

By default, ‘touch’ sets file timestamps to the current time. Because
‘touch’ acts on its operands left to right, the resulting timestamps
of earlier and later operands may disagree.

When setting file timestamps to the current time, ‘touch’ can change the
timestamps for files that the user does not own but has write permission
for. Otherwise, the user must own the files. Some older systems have a
further restriction: the user must own the files unless both the access
and modification timestamps are being set to the current time.

The ‘touch’ command cannot set a file’s status change timestamp to a
user-specified value, and cannot change the file’s birth time (if
supported) at all. Also, ‘touch’ has issues similar to those affecting
all programs that update file timestamps. For example, ‘touch’ may set a
file’s timestamp to a value that differs slightly from the requested
time. \*Note File timestamps::.

Timestamps assume the time zone rules specified by the ‘TZ’ environment
variable, or by the system default rules if ‘TZ’ is not set. \*Note
Specifying the Time Zone with ‘TZ’: (libc)TZ Variable. You can avoid
ambiguities during daylight saving transitions by using UTC timestamps.

The program accepts the following options. Also see \*note Common
options::.

‘-a’ ‘--time=atime’ ‘--time=access’ ‘--time=use’ Change the access
timestamp only. \*Note File timestamps::.

‘-c’ ‘--no-create’ Do not warn about or create files that do not exist.

‘-d TIME’ ‘--date=TIME’ Use TIME instead of the current time. It can
contain month names, time zones, ‘am’ and ‘pm’, ‘yesterday’, etc. For
example, ‘--date="2004-02-27 14:19:13.489392193 +0530"’ specifies the
instant of time that is 489,392,193 nanoseconds after February 27, 2004
at 2:19:13 PM in a time zone that is 5 hours and 30 minutes east of UTC.
\*Note Date input formats::. File systems that do not support
high-resolution timestamps silently ignore any excess precision here.

‘-f’ Ignored; for compatibility with BSD versions of ‘touch’.

‘-h’ ‘--no-dereference’ Attempt to change the timestamps of a symbolic
link, rather than what the link refers to. When using this option, empty
files are not created, but option ‘-c’ must also be used to avoid
warning about files that do not exist. Not all systems support changing
the timestamps of symlinks, since underlying system support for this
action was not required until POSIX 2008. Also, on some systems, the
mere act of examining a symbolic link changes the access timestamp, such
that only changes to the modification timestamp will persist long enough
to be observable. When coupled with option ‘-r’, a reference timestamp
is taken from a symbolic link rather than the file it refers to.

‘-m’ ‘--time=mtime’ ‘--time=modify’ Change the modification timestamp
only.

‘-r FILE’ ‘--reference=FILE’ Use the times of the reference FILE instead
of the current time. If this option is combined with the ‘--date=TIME’
(‘-d TIME’) option, the reference FILE’s time is the origin for any
relative TIMEs given, but is otherwise ignored. For example, ‘-r foo -d
'-5 seconds'’ specifies a timestamp equal to five seconds before the
corresponding timestamp for ‘foo’. If FILE is a symbolic link, the
reference timestamp is taken from the target of the symlink, unless ‘-h’
was also in effect.

‘-t \[\[CC\]YY\]MMDDHHMM\[.SS\]’ Use the argument (optional four-digit
or two-digit years, months, days, hours, minutes, optional seconds)
instead of the current time. If the year is specified with only two
digits, then CC is 20 for years in the range 0 ... 68, and 19 for years
in 69 ... 99. If no digits of the year are specified, the argument is
interpreted as a date in the current year. On the atypical systems that
support leap seconds, SS may be ‘60’.

On systems predating POSIX 1003.1-2001, ‘touch’ supports an obsolete
syntax, as follows. If no timestamp is given with any of the ‘-d’, ‘-r’,
or ‘-t’ options, and if there are two or more FILEs and the first FILE
is of the form ‘MMDDHHMM\[YY\]’ and this would be a valid argument to
the ‘-t’ option (if the YY, if any, were moved to the front), and if the
represented year is in the range 1969–1999, that argument is interpreted
as the time for the other files instead of as a file name. Although this
obsolete behavior can be controlled with the ‘\_POSIX2\_VERSION’
environment variable (\*note Standards conformance::), portable scripts
should avoid commands whose behavior depends on this variable. For
example, use ‘touch ./12312359 main.c’ or ‘touch -t 12312359 main.c’
rather than the ambiguous ‘touch 12312359 main.c’.

An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
