---
title:  "tsort"
linkTitle::  "tsort"
weight: 100
description: >-
     tsort
---

# ‘tsort’: Topological sort

‘tsort’ performs a topological sort on the given FILE, or standard input
if no input file is given or for a FILE of ‘-’. For more details and
some history, see \*note tsort background::.
Synopsis:

```ash 
 tsort [OPTION] [FILE]
```

‘tsort’ reads its input as pairs of strings, separated by blanks,
indicating a partial ordering. The output is a total ordering that
corresponds to the given partial ordering.

For example

```ash 
 tsort <<EOF
 a b c
 d
 e f
 b c d e
 EOF
```

will produce the output

```ash 
 a
 b
 c
 d
 e
 f
```

Consider a more realistic example. You have a large set of functions all
in one file, and they may all be declared static except one. Currently
that one (say ‘main’) is the first function defined in the file, and the
ones it calls directly follow it, followed by those they call, etc.
Let’s say that you are determined to take advantage of prototypes, so
you have to choose between declaring all of those functions (which means
duplicating a lot of information from the definitions) and rearranging
the functions so that as many as possible are defined before they are
used. One way to automate the latter process is to get a list for each
function of the functions it calls directly. Many programs can generate
such lists. They describe a call graph. Consider the following list, in
which a given line indicates that the function on the left calls the one
on the right directly.

```ash 
 main parse_options
 main tail_file
 main tail_forever
 tail_file pretty_name
 tail_file write_header
 tail_file tail
 tail_forever recheck
 tail_forever pretty_name
 tail_forever write_header
 tail_forever dump_remainder
 tail tail_lines
 tail tail_bytes
 tail_lines start_lines
 tail_lines dump_remainder
 tail_lines file_lines
 tail_lines pipe_lines
 tail_bytes xlseek
 tail_bytes start_bytes
 tail_bytes dump_remainder
 tail_bytes pipe_bytes
 file_lines dump_remainder
 recheck pretty_name
```

then you can use ‘tsort’ to produce an ordering of those functions that
satisfies your requirement.

```ash 
 example$ tsort call-graph | tac
 dump_remainder
 start_lines
 file_lines
 pipe_lines
 xlseek
 start_bytes
 pipe_bytes
 tail_lines
 tail_bytes
 pretty_name
 write_header
 tail
 recheck
 parse_options
 tail_file
 tail_forever
 main
```

‘tsort’ detects any cycles in the input and writes the first cycle
encountered to standard error.

Note that for a given partial ordering, generally there is no unique
total ordering. In the context of the call graph above, the function
‘parse\_options’ may be placed anywhere in the list as long as it
precedes ‘main’.

The only options are ‘--help’ and ‘--version’. \*Note Common options::.

An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.

  - Menu:

  - tsort background:: Where tsort came from.

## ‘tsort’: Background

‘tsort’ exists because very early versions of the Unix linker processed
an archive file exactly once, and in order. As ‘ld’ read each object in
the archive, it decided whether it was needed in the program based on
whether it defined any symbols which were undefined at that point in the
link.

This meant that dependencies within the archive had to be handled
specially. For example, ‘scanf’ probably calls ‘read’. That means that
in a single pass through an archive, it was important for ‘scanf.o’ to
appear before read.o, because otherwise a program which calls ‘scanf’
but not ‘read’ might end up with an unexpected unresolved reference to
‘read’.

The way to address this problem was to first generate a set of
dependencies of one object file on another. This was done by a shell
script called ‘lorder’. The GNU tools don’t provide a version of lorder,
as far as I know, but you can still find it in BSD distributions.

Then you ran ‘tsort’ over the ‘lorder’ output, and you used the
resulting sort to define the order in which you added objects to the
archive.

This whole procedure has been obsolete since about 1980, because Unix
archives now contain a symbol table (traditionally built by ‘ranlib’,
now generally built by ‘ar’ itself), and the Unix linker uses the symbol
table to effectively make multiple passes over an archive file.

Anyhow, that’s where tsort came from. To solve an old problem with the
way the linker handled archive files, which has since been solved in
different ways.
